the salary for a professor can can Very, pretty widely. Um, it's usually
I would say probably between how I'm bad at this, and it changes
I should mention with inflation. Eso You know, I've been in my position
for almost 20 years now. And so the salaries that people were hired
at when at the time when I was hired were much lower than the salaries
at which incoming new professors are being hired at now. And
And every, um, every raise that we get, we essentially get to raises
throughout the course of our careers. So you get hired and you work
for, I think, five years, six years, something like that. And then
you go up for, ah, promotion from associate or sorry, Assistant professor
to associate professor. And that is when also for us, you get
tenure, and that's a salary bump when you get that promotion, and then
the next promotion that you can get is Thio from associate professor
to full professor. And that's another salary bump at that point.
And that's pretty much it e mean there are other. You can get other
raises and things like that for merit or for whatever but e I mean,
honestly, being being in a state university system, um, you know, we
have had I remember years where we didn't even get cost of living
raise is because the budget was the state budget was so tight. Um, so
the way that I think about it is that you know, there's really just
two times that you get a raise, and that raises a percentage of whatever
your starting salary waas. So it can make it difficult to say,
like, what's the average salary range for professors? Because a lot
depends on essentially, how long they've been professors and what
what was the going rate when they were hired. And so, for instance,
one of the things that sometimes happens within departments is you get
this weird kind of like lopsided, um, situation where people who
have been teaching people who have been professors for you know, decades
are actually making less than new brand new professors just coming
in. And the reason for that is that you know, the people who have
been teaching there for a really, really long time were hired at a
point when the starting or base salary was a lot lower. And while they
may have been getting raises throughout their careers, there's mainly
those two and their a percentage of whatever salary you started
at and so you can get to, you know, even 10% raises. But the cost
of living has gone up, or inflation or whatever. And so the new people
who are being hired are being hired at this much higher base salary
rate, and they have to do that to be competitive. You can't offer,
you know, really low salaries and expect to get any candidates who
want to come to your school. So so for the hiring of the new people
they have thio offer competitive salaries. And so then you get this
situation where you have newer people who come in on are making mawr
than people who have been there for 30 years, and that can be kind
of weird and awkward sometimes. But that's part of working at a state
institution. I think is that you know, we're really our budgets are
limited by the state budget, so you know the range. I think I'm gonna
say anywhere from $70,000 to $130,000. I think 100 30 is probably
pretty high. I think most professors are closer to, like the $100,000
mark, Um, per year, But honestly, I'm not I'm not entirely sure.